I come from a family of five brothers
all scientists and engineers a few years
ago I sent them the following email dear
brothers I hope this message finds you
well I am emailing to let you know that
I'm dropping out of my master's program
in engineering to pursue a career as a
full time musician all that I ask from
you is not to worry about me brother
number one replied he was encouraging
but a bit skeptical he said I wish you
the best of luck you're going to need it
brother number two is a little bit more
skeptical he said don't do it this will
be the worst mistake of your life I in
the real career though the rest of my
brothers were so enthusiastic about my
decision
they didn't even respond
I know that the skepticism coming from
my brothers is out of care and concern
for me they were worried they thought it
will be difficult to make it as an
artist that it will be a challenge and
you know what they were right it is such
a challenge to be a full-time artist I
have so many friends who need to have a
second job as a plan-b in order to pay
for the bills except that Plan B
sometimes becomes their plan a and it's
not just my friends and I who
experienced this the US Census Bureau
states that only 10% of our school
graduates end up working as full-time
artist the other 90% they changed
careers they work in marketing sales
education and other fields but this is
not news right
we almost expect the artist to be a
struggling artist but why should we
expect that I read an article in The
Huffington Post saying that four years
ago the European Union began the world's
largest other arts funding initiative
creative Europe will give 2.4 billion
dollars to over 300,000 artists in
contrast the u.s. budget for our
National Endowment for the Arts the
largest single funder for the Arts
across the United States is merely 146
million dollars to put things into
perspective the u.s. budget for the
military marching bands alone is almost
twice as much as the entire and EA
another striking image comes from
Brandon McMahon for the Huffington Post
saying that out of the 1 trillion dollar
budget for military and defense related
spending if only 0.05 percent were
allocated to the arts we would be able
to pay for 20 full-time symphony
orchestras at 20 million dollars apiece
and give over 80,000 artists an annual
salary of $50,000 each if that's only
0.05 percent
imagine what a full 1% could do now I
know we live in a capitalist society and
profits matter a lot so let's look at it
from a financial angle shall we the US
nonprofit arts industry generates more
than 166 billion dollars in economic
activity it employs 5.7 million people
and it returns twelve point six billion
dollars in tax revenue but this is only
a financial angle right we all know that
the arts is way more than just an
economic value the arts brings meaning
to life is the spirit of our culture it
brings people together and it supports
creativity and social cohesion but if
the arts contributes this much tower
economy why then do we still invest so
little in arts and artists why do more
than 80 percent of our schools
nationwide still experience budget cuts
in arts education programs what is it
about the value of arts and artists that
we still don't understand
I believe the system is flawed and far
from being fair and I want to help
change that I want to live in a society
where artists are more valued and have
more cultural and financial support so
they can focus on creating arts instead
of being forced to drive ubers or take
corporate jobs they'd rather not have
there are other sources of income for
artists however there are private
foundations grants and patrons who give
money except a vast majority of artists
don't know about these opportunities on
one side you have institutions and
people with money on the other side you
have artists seeking funding but the
artists don't know about the people with
the money and the people with the money
don't necessarily know about the artists
out there this is why I'm very excited
to share Grandpa an online platform that
uses technology to match artists with
grants and funding opportunities in a
way that is easy fast and less
intimidating grandfa is only one step
towards solving
an existing problem of funding
inequality but we need to work
collectively on multiple fronts to
reevaluate how we view the artists in
our society do we think of arts as a
luxury or a necessity do we understand
what goes on in the day-to-day life of
an artist or do we still believe that
artists no matter how struggling they
are are happy simply because they're
following their passion in a few years
I plan to send my brothers the following
email dear brothers I hope this message
finds you well I am emailing to let you
know that I'm doing great and so are
hundreds of thousands of artists who are
being valued more culturally and
financially and getting enough funding
to focus on their crafts and create more
art I appreciate all of your support
couldn't have done it without you thank
you
[Applause]